OK.
So we've seen how to make new directories.
Now let's learn how to make new files.
So you might think make directory M-K DA or there might be.
Make file or make for some something.
Unfortunately there's not the syntax actually totally different.
The command we need to use is called touch t o u c h.
So the command touch followed by whatever the new file name and file extension that we want that file
to be.
We hit enter.
It will make a new file for us.
So let's say I'm inside of a cat picks directory seed into it I can run touch faves TXI.
So whatever I want.
Whatever file type I want dot doc dot What is it for Excel spreadsheets.
I can't remember PTF dot JPEG whatever it is you can create a new file and this course most of what
we'll be doing is making new Python files that p y We'll get to that in a moment though.
So touch whatever the new file name and file type is it entered and it will make an empty file inside
the current directory.
And if we typed us we would then see.
Now there's a faves.
So touch is the magic command.
Let's give it a shot.
So I'm back here.
I'm inside the dog's photos.
Dog photos directory.
Let's go into rusty picks or CD resti picks and I could make a new file and I'll just call this one
puppy dot J bag.
So touch puppy dot J peg.
Now making a file like a photo from the command line seems kind of backwards and it is a really weird
thing to do because we're basically making an empty jpeg which you never come across but it is possible.
So you can see I type.
LS I have puppydog jpeg.
Now this is actually something I've never thought about.
What happens if you try and open that.
All right the file puppydog it cannot be opened because it's empty.
So preview treated it like a peg.
It is a J peg it tried to open it but it says it's empty there's nothing to be displayed.
Interesting.
So let's also make let's do touch treats that TXI.
So they'll make a text file for us and now we have two files a jpeg and a text file.
So like I said most of what we'll be doing is making python files and this is a workflow will follow
all the time.
CD into a directory make a new python file and then put some code in that file.
You haven't talked about yet.
That's what this entire course is about.
And then execute that file with Python.
So we'll get to that.
The only other thing I should mention the name touch Why is it called Touch.
Well it's pretty bizarre.
I honestly don't have a great answer but touch actually does two different things.
So to explain that let's do an Alice dash L and let's look at puppydog J peg.
So if you look here we have November 28 12:16.
That's the time and date that this was created or it might be last updated.
In this case it's the same I believe it's actually last updated.
So what I can do now if I use touch on a file that already exists.
Touch puppie dad.
JPEG what it will do is not recreate it it won't delete it and make a new file named puppydog peg it
will just gently touch this file and change the last updated time.
I don't know why this is a thing honestly but this touch command has two features two functionalities.
If you use it on an existing file it will just update the time it was last updated it will touch it
nice slow caress but if you use it with a new file name that doesn't exist it will make a new file for
you.
So to prevent touch puppydog jpeg.
Let's do our LS Desch Allegan.
You can see now it says November 28 12 18.
J Paik.
Now I'm realizing it's not the best example because I have no way of proving that it didn't just completely
race and create a new puppy that jpeg.
So if we had some information in these files you would see that it doesn't erase it.
It only updates this time right here.
So kind of a bizarre quirk.
Honestly maybe from a time where people were updating files more often in the time things were updated
it mattered more.
But for the most part I've actually not even for the most part the only time I've ever seen touch used
is to make a new file.
OK so make directory make dear go make folder touch not make file or something thing it's touch.
Unfortunately will make a new file.
You can make any type of file you want.
J peg t s t.
Python javascript.
H Tim L.
C Ss whatever file you need.
You can make with touch and also has that weird quirky feature that if you use it on an existing file
it touches it.
It updates its last updated time.
All right.